.TH lcal 1 "2016" "" "lcal "

.SH NAME
lcal \- display a calendar.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcal
[options] [month] [day] [year]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lcal
is a command-line calendar similar to
.B cal
and
.B ncal.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "-d --day-of-week"
Show day-name for date.
.B
.IP  "-e --easter"
Show the date for Easter (Western).
.B
.IP "-h --no-highlight"
Disable highlighting.
.B
.IP "-j --julian"
Show Julian calendar. Days are one based - Dec 31st is day 365 (or 366 if year is a leap year).
.B
.IP "-m --month"
Show calendar for month. A year may be the next parameter.
.B
.IP "-n --next"
Show next month's calendar.
.B
.IP "-o --orthodox"
Show the date for Easter (Eastern Orthodox).
.B
.IP "-p --previous"
Show last month's calendar.
.B
.IP "-w --week-number"
Show week number.
.B
.IP "-x --date-diff"
Show time between two dates. This option takes either 3 parameters or 6, as in MM DD YYYY MM DD YYYY or MM DD YYYY. If three, the current date is computed against it; if six, one date is computed against the other.
.B
.IP "-y --year"
Show yearly calendar.
.B
.IP "-D --discordian"
Show date according to the Disordian calendar.
.B
.IP "-G --gregorian-to-jdn"
Convert a Gregorian date to the Julian Day Number (jdn).
.B
.IP "-H --html"
Generate an HTML calendar. Use
.B -h --html
to turn off highlighting. Output must be redirected to a file.
.B
.IP "-J --jdn-to-gregorian"
Convert a Julian Day Number (jdn) to Gregorian.
.B
.IP "-N --ncal"
Show the calendar in
.B ncal
format.
.B
.IP "-O --orthodox-julian"
Show the date for Orthodox Easter according the the Julian Calendar.
.B
.IP "-V --version"
Show version information.
.B
.IP "-W --show-week-numbers
Show week numbers next to default calendar.
.B
.IP "-1 --one"
Show only the current calendar. This is the default.
.B
.IP "-3 --three"
Show last month, this month and next month.
.B
.IP "--help"
Show usage information.

.SH PARAMETERS
Most flags can take a date string as an argument. A single parameter is either a
.B month
-- this will print the month for the current year -- or it is a
.B year
-- this will print the yearly calendarfor the specified year. Two parameters are
.B month 
and
.B year
-- this will print the month for the specified year. Three parameters are
.B month
,
.B day
and
.B year
-- this will print the specified calendar with the day highlighted.

.B month
can be numbers [
.B 1-12
], or three or more letters of the month name:
.B jan
,
.B feb
,
.B mar
, etc.

The year range is currently
.B 1753 - 9999
.

The
.B -m
flag is the same as
.B month
without the flag. A
.B year
can be added after
.B month
.

To disable highlighting for
.B --html
, use
.B -h
before this flag.

Flags
.B -1
,
.B -n
and
.B -p
stop reading arguments after them.

.SH AUTHOR
The utility lcal and this manual were written by Luciano D. Cecere

.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Luciano D. Cecere <Ldante86@aol.com>

Released under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty, without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B cal(1), ddate(1), ncal(1), gcal(1)
