rcal(1) -- display a calendar
=============================

## SYNOPSIS

`rcal` [<options>] [[[day] month] year]

## DESCRIPTION

**rcal** is a command-line calendar similar to cal/ncal. 

## OPTIONS

* `-d`
Show days/years between two dates.
* `-e`
Show Western easter.
* `-h`
Turn off highlighting.
* `-j`
Show the Julian calendar.
* `-n`
Show next month.
* `-p`
Show the previous month.
* `-w`
Show weeknumbers next to default calendar.
* `-y`
Show yearly calendar.
* `-D`
Show day of week.
* `-G`
Show Julian day number (JDN).
* `-J`
Show Gregorian date for JDN.
* `-V`
Show version information and exit.
* `-W`
Show current week number.
* `--ddate`
Show Discordian date.
* `--help`
Show usage information and exit.
* `--html`
Generate a calendar in raw HTML.
* `--ncal`
Show calendar in ncal format.
* `-3`
Show previous, current and next month.

##PARAMETERS
A single parameter specifies the month (1-12) to be displayed.

Two parameters specify month and year.

Three parameters specify the month, day and year; the day will be highlighted.

##NOTES
The `-h` flag must precede all other flags and args.

With the `-3` flag, the middle month and year can be set.

The `-y` flag is optional if a year is the only argument.

The `-y` flag may come after `-j` and `--ncal` followed by a year.

The `-y` and `-3` flags don't support highlighting.

##EXAMPLES

rcal --ncal -j -y 2000

rcal 10 28 1986

rcal -J 2446732

rcal -h -j 10

rcal --html > today.html

rcal 2015

##HISTORY
This program started its life as a 5000+ line bash script called lcal
I wrote several years ago. It was my favorite shell program - it has
over 50 command-line flags! - but because it was so slow, I chose to make an
implementation using the Ruby language.

##AUTHOR
rcal and this manual were written by Luciano D. Cecere

##LICENSE
GPLv2 - 2015

##SEE ALSO
cal(1), ddate(1), ncal(1)
